[FLINK-25129][docs] Improvements to the table-planner-loader related docs (#18812)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/dev/configuration/advanced.md

# Advanced Configuration Topics

## Anatomy of the Flink distribution

Flink itself consists of a set of classes and dependencies that form the core of Flink's runtime
and must be present when a Flink application is started. The classes and dependencies needed to run
the system handle areas such as coordination, networking, checkpointing, failover, APIs,
operators (such as windowing), resource management, etc.

> These core classes and dependencies are packaged in the `flink-dist.jar` available in the `/lib`

Reviewer: It reads ok, but for more formal wording, `which is available in the /lib`

> These core classes and dependencies are packaged in the `flink-dist.jar` available in the `/lib`

Reviewer 2: Something like this yes

and must be present when a Flink application is started. The classes and dependencies needed to run
the system handle areas such as coordination, networking, checkpointing, failover, APIs,
operators (such as windowing), resource management, etc.

These core classes and dependencies are packaged in the `flink-dist` jar, are part of Flink's `lib`
folder, and part of the basic Flink container images. You can think of these dependencies as similar
to Java's core library, which contains classes like `String` and `List`.
These core classes and dependencies are packaged in the `flink-dist.jar` available in the `/lib`
folder in the downloaded distribution, and part of the basic Flink container images. 
You can think of these dependencies as similar to Java's core library, which contains classes like `String` and `List`.

In order to keep the core dependencies as small as possible and avoid dependency clashes, the
Flink Core Dependencies do not contain any connectors or libraries (i.e. CEP, SQL, ML) in order to
avoid having an excessive default number of classes and dependencies in the classpath.

> ### User Application Dependencies

Reviewer: Why remove this header?

Author: I don't think it's bringing any useful information more than what is already said in other pages.  I also linked to the classloading docs, which really goes deep in how the user application classloader works

> such as all the required [modules to execute Table jobs](#anatomy-of-table-dependencies) and a set of connector and formats.

Author: Maybe? Not sure what should be sad about DataStream, as everything is already within `flink-dist` to execute DataStream jobs

> such as all the required [modules to execute Table jobs](#anatomy-of-table-dependencies) and a set of connector and formats.

Reviewer 2: That's a good point. I think it's good

> These are loaded by default and can be removed from the classpath just removing them from the `/lib` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These are loaded by default and can be removed from the classpath just by removing them from the `/lib` folder.
```

> Flink also ships additional optional dependencies under `/opt` which can be enabled by moving the JARs in the `/lib` folder.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Flink also ships additional optional dependencies under the `/opt` folder, which can be enabled by moving the JARs in the `/lib` folder.
```

> For additional information about classloading, refer to [Classloading in Flink]({{< ref "docs/ops/debugging/debugging_classloading.md" >}})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about classloading, refer to the section on [Classloading in Flink]({{< ref "docs/ops/debugging/debugging_classloading.md" >}}).
```

Starting from Flink 1.15, the distribution contains two planners:

- `flink-table-planner{{< scala_version >}}-{{< version >}}.jar`, in `/opt`, contains the query planner
- `flink-table-planner-loader-{{< version >}}.jar`, loaded by default in `/lib`, contains the query planner 
  hidden behind an isolated classpath (you won't be able to address any `io.apache.flink.table.planner` directly)

The two planner JARs contain the same code, but they are packaged differently. In one case, you must use the 
same Scala version of the JAR. In the other, you do not need to make considerations about Scala, since
it is hidden inside the JAR.

By default,`flink-table-planner-loader` is used by the distribution. If you need to access and use the internals of the query planner, 
you can swap the JARs (copying and pasting `flink-table-planner{{< scala_version >}}.jar` in the distribution `/lib` folder). 
Be aware that you will be constrained to using the Scala version of the Flink distribution that you are using.

{{< hint danger >}}
The two planners cannot co-exist at the same time in the classpath. If you load both of them
in `/lib` your Table Jobs will fail.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint warning >}}

> In the next Flink versions we will stop shipping the `flink-table-planner{{< scala_version >}}` artifact in the Flink distribution. 
> We strongly suggest migrating your jobs and your custom connector/formats to work with the api modules, without relying on planner internals. 
> If you need some functionality from the planner, which is currently not exposed through the api modules, please open a ticket in order to discuss it with the community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the upcoming Flink versions, we will stop shipping the `flink-table-planner{{< scala_version >}}` artifact in the Flink distribution. 
We strongly suggest migrating your jobs and your custom connectors/formats to work with the API modules, without relying on planner internals. 
If you need some functionality from the planner, which is currently not exposed through the API modules, please open a ticket in order to discuss it with the community.
```
